The goal of my project is to create a reliable data analysis project with the pototential to become a package. I will generate scaling plots to compare genomic distance vs log interaction compartment in different Hi-C samples. We will also generate compartment data vs. log interaction to determine compartment changes in Hi-C samples. This will allow for the production of chromosomal scaling plots for data obtained in Hi-C experiments.

Genome structure is composed of a hierarchal structure that includes chromosome territories, active and inactive spatial compartments, topologically associating domains, and chromatin loops. This project seeks to combine .gz files for Hi-C data and bedgraphs from compartment analysis into one file. In the case, that we seek help from other individuals, we will use the integration-manager workflow to design the package.

We can generate a plot for each chromosome to assess differences between conditions and the genomic distance vs log interaction. To assess chromatin compartments we will create 3 types of plots for each chromosome: active only, inactive only, and both active and inactive compartment scaling plots. While this process can be done in individual steps the process is time intensive and creates opportunites to introduce incorrect inputs and mistakes. I will use Hi-C data obtained from experiments in my lab, but this package should be able to encompass any Hi-C data that generates .gz files and bedgraph files for compartment analysis. At the very least .gz files can be sufficient and publicly published compartment analysis can be used to create bedgraphs. Ideally, this project has the potential to create 3 plots for each chromosome that is inputted.
